[Music]
whoa if you see this on the beach keep
your dog as far away as possible what
comes to your mind when you hear
somebody describing their weekend
activity which included walking their
dog along the beach I'll bet all you
think about is the relaxing sound of
crashing waves the wide expanse of white
sand and a happy pet walking around a
lovely image that doesn't even remotely
involve death in fact such a walk
nowadays is very likely to be fatal for
your dog that almost happened to the
bull of pet of a woman who was walking
it on the beach along the English coast
she was fast and lucky enough to hold
her dog's leash and not let the animal
explore a suspicious white lump of
something smelly and disgusting what you
will see in this video might shock and
repulse you but also make you think and
you will definitely never again let your
dog wander away from you on the beach so
pluck up your courage and let's start
returning to the woman on the beach in
England it is interesting that at first
she believed that what she saw was a
giant jellyfish but to her horror at a
closer inspection it turned out to be a
huge lump of fat it was solid and
frankly speaking absolutely revolting
so what is this stuff although at first
sight a romantic an mistake this
substance for the sea foam and a
prankster might try to persuade you that
you're looking at the poo of a jellyfish
the case is much more serious these
white blobs got the nickname fatbergs
they are clumped together lumps of fat
mostly palm oil mixed with wipes
sanitary items and all the waste you can
find in a sewer
they are mostly found on the shores of
Britain and are called death from
paradise such a name was given to these
dog killers as they had arrived from the
Caribbean having traveled thousands of
miles
fatbergs crossed the Atlantic and ended
up in Sussex Cornwall Dorset Kent and
other counties our fatbergs really so
dangerous
yes they are especially for children and
dogs
these solid blobs are covered with
millions of extremely dangerous germs
kids don't have enough protection to
fight off the effect they might have on
a human body as for dogs they love the
diesel like smell of the palm oil palm
oil is indeed oil it is produced from
the fruit of palm trees and is the
ingredient in many everyday products
from soap to shampoo it is harmless for
people but not for dogs especially in
the form of fat Burks the substance
found on the beaches is gelatinous if
swallowed by a dog it lodges in the
esophagus the animal starts to choke and
an immediate emergency surgery is needed
what's more let us remind you about the
deadly bacteria that may kill a dog
especially young or small consider
yourself lucky if your dog only
developed stomach pains diarrhea and
vomiting
another problem is swallowing foreign
bodies because we remember that within
the palm oil diapers wet wipes and even
used condoms are lodged lots of pets
died in 2014 when the palm oil lumps
were washed ashore for the first time
well if I don't have a dog or a small
kid I'm safe right wrong fatbergs are
not fatal but very unpleasant for an
adult as well if you come into contact
with this terrible Boulder sized
substance immediately wash it off you
shower gel or soap and don't forget to
wash all your clothes thoroughly do you
know the favorite time for fatbergs to
be born no well that's a bitter irony
but it's Christmas
are you surprised you shouldn't be
remember Turkey people tip hut Greece
leftover cooking this bird as well as
buttered greens down the drain
unfortunately it blocks the pipes and
results into nothing less than floods
if you are as shocked and appalled as we
are hit the like button and keep
watching fat Berks are just the tip of
the iceberg
yes pun was intended wasn't that lovely
we will tell you some more facts that
won't leave you indifferent the first
time something which hadn't gotten his
name fatberg yet was noticed was in 2013
London where the discovery was made had
never seen anything like that a lump of
fat mixed with the items that don't
decompose in the water like toilet paper
was found in the drains but what shocked
sewer managers was the size of the thing
as big as a bus and weighing 17 tons it
was a terrifying finding a year later in
September 2014
London witnessed another enormous
fatberg this one was Boeing 747 airplane
sized and inside it you would see food
tennis balls fat wet wipes planks of
wood and other wastes heck you could
build a condo in it a 394 foot fat Berg
was found in Welsh pool in Wales in July
2015 this situation didn't remain the
problem of just one country Australia
and the USA have also been struck by
this unexpected hazard in 2016 in
Australia a fat Berg that weighed more
than one time had to be removed by crane
and at the end of September 2017 in the
USA a fat Berg hiding under the streets
of Baltimore in Maryland was the reason
for a serious problem more than 1
million gallons spilled from the sewers
into Jones fall but the most shocking
and at the same time most recent
discovery was made in September 2017
under Whitechapel in London the fatberg
found there was you're not gonna believe
this
820 feet long as for its weight it was a
shocking 150 tonnes the authorities are
afraid that it might take longer than
two months to destroy it
it all sounds ominous and scary doesn't
it but perhaps it's the sign for all of
humankind to stop for a while and think
about what we are doing with our planet
its oceans and seas let's have a look at
other unexpected things that the ocean
shares with us you might have seen those
famous shots made by the photographer
Chris Jordan they featured dead baby
albatrosses these photographs were made
on a group of islands located remotely
as far as 2,000 miles away from the
closest continent why are these pictures
so well known because of the stomach
content of the young birds their parents
were mistakenly feeding them plastic
trash floating all around the Pacific
Ocean adults took it for fish or other
food and the quantities of it were
lethal for their nestlings another
terrible finding anybody can come across
on the beach is dead turtles these
animals got confused thinking that
floating plastic bags are their favorite
food jellyfish plastic bags block the
digestive tract of these creatures and
make them suffocate sometimes turtles
feel too full because of the plastic
trash and stop eating which leads to
starvation in 2011 one more dramatic
case was noted on Wasaga Beach Ontario
about 6,000 birds were found dead near
the water the reason for death was
botulism poisoning in fact first it
infected fish then the birds were
affected by the illness botulism is a
terrible disease caused by toxic
botulinum it is the reason of paralysis
which starts in the middle of the body
and then spreads to the limbs as soon as
the breathing muscles are reached that's
the end the situation of 2011 was
particularly dramatic
[Music]
however the authorities didn't seem too
worried they claimed it was still okay
to enjoy a swim and even eat fish caught
in the Great Lakes
he just had to make sure it was acting
normally and be careful when cleaning it
after cooking fish thoroughly you could
serve it for your Sunday dinner without
any fear would you risk it especially
considering their warning to observe
your dog for any sign of disease if it
happened to munch on a random fish found
on the beach no not very reassuring
but not all findings have been so
dramatic sad or terrifying in some cases
the ocean presented people with some
quite impressive or outright hilarious
gifts what would you feel if lazing on
the shallow water near the shore you
found out that your companion was a
yellow rubber duck how cute and freaky
at the same time would that be anyway
it's not just an imaginary situation
28000 rubber ducks were probably the
sweetest thing to be lost by a cargo
ship it happened in 1992 but these
yellow bath inhabitants can still be
found drifting along the shore near the
beaches all over the world the thing is
these little travellers were left alone
in the middle of the Pacific Ocean
on a trip from Hong Kong to the USA it
seems they went their separate ways from
there as some could be found in South
America some showed up in Australia
others preferred the beaches of Hawaii
you won't believe but a couple of them
chose the ices of the Arctic these water
pollutants were of great help to
scientists oceanographers managed to
understand currents better and even
estimated the so called ocean Garbage
Patch all just tracking the roots of the
Ducks and if you are upset that you are
not among the lucky ones who got a
rubber duck 'ln for free don't give up
there are about 2,000 more drifting
somewhere there in the world's oceans
have you heard about any unusual or
dangerous discoveries on the beaches
what was the most interesting disgusting
or cute thing you've ever found near the
water write about it in the comments
below and remember to share this video
with your friends what if their dog or
child will come across a fatberg on the
beach by the way
haven't you forgotten anything what
about hitting two buttons like to
appreciate our work and subscribe to
stay with us on the bright side of life
and see what is coming your way